This is example configuration for a system with roaming workstations enabled.
Diff it against the base configuration in the parent directory to see the
enabled options.

If you are installing into VirtualBox please ensure that your main network card
(the external interface of the Umbrella Linux server) is configured as belonging
to a "NAT network". You will need to create the specific named network for this
in VirtualBox first. The roaming workstations (if you configure them as
VirtualBox VMs will use the same NAT network for their primary interface, so
that they are external to the Umbrella Linux server. It is convenient to have
DHCP enabled in this network, to assign the IP addresses to the newly installed
roaming workstations automatically by Virtualbox.

After installing this Umbrella server you can register the roaming workstations
as follows:

1. Connect to the configuration server of your Umbrella Linux as root and
run the commant like this

umbrella-addworkstation "/Central Office/roamer01" 08:00:27:83:0b:de \
                        -l roaming -d your@email

The name of the workstation will be "roamer01", "Central Office" is the name of
the central office in your organization defined in the organization.xml and
08:00:27:83:0b:de is the MAC address of your workstation (the specific number
is given here as an example, you will need to change it). It is important that
the location of the workstation (-l option) is set to "roaming", which ensures
that the proper profile is assigned. The option -d specifies a comment, which
can be useful for organizational purposes.

The workstation will be assigned an IP address on LAN, which it will use
when connecting internally. During the roaming operation the IP address will
be assinged by the VPN server.

Alternatively, you can create a roaming workstation from the browser
by connecting to https://gosa.YOUR.DOMAIN/ . It is equally important to
set the location to "roaming" there as well.

2. Wait 5 minutes until the changes in LDAP will propagate to DNS, DHCP and
other configuration files.

3. Go to the config server ("ssh config") as admin user, not root. Then run the
following command:

umbrella-mkinstall roamer01 >installer

It will prepare a customized installation script for "roamer01" and store it in
the file "installer", created in the current directory.

In case the workstation itself is not physically present on site, you can mail
this script securely (it contains private keys for the workstation) to its
owner to let him finish the installation on his own.

4. Install the bare minimum Lubuntu system with default settings, connected to
the Internet (or to the external NAT network, if you are testing the system in
VirtualBox). You can use the desktop installer from lubuntu.net (only 16.04
and 18.04 LTSs are supported at the moment).

After installing and connecting to the Internet, close the graphical session,
login to a text console as root (via sudo, if necessary), copy the installation
script from the previous step into the home directory, "chmod +x" and run it.
Wait for script to finish and reboot the workstation as instructed. You will
have a fully configured roaming workstation shortly. Log in with your corporate
credentials, the same you use at the office.



After the first successul log in, the roaming workstation can be used in an
offline mode without connection to the Internet or to the main office.

If you started your session offline and connected to the Internet later, you
will need to run "kinit" command to obtain credentials, necessary to connect
to the corporate services (such as Jabber). Logging out and back in will also
do this, but running "kinit" is less invasive.

Roaming workstations connect to the Internet directly, but use VPN to access
the corporate services (including the corporate web site). They automatically
update their configuration every hour if connected to the internet (and the
main office is reachable).
